Feature/block2 Setup AWS account IAM for deployment in EKS (#24)
devonfw/hangar: documentation/tutorial-prepare-aws.asciidoc

:toc: macro
toc::[]
:idprefix:
:idseparator: -
= Prepare AWS account for deployment with Azure DevOps
The scope of this section is to prepare an AWS account to be ready for deployment from Azure DevOps to AWS EKS. By the end of this guide, a new user with the required permissions will be created.

== Preparing environment

> First of all, [install AWS CLI for your OS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/getting-started-install.html). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First of all, [install AWS CLI for your OS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/getting-started-install.html).
```

In case you do not have permission to create new IAM users, request it to your AWS administrator asking for the following policies attached. Then go to <<configure-cli>>.
```
AmazonEKSClusterPolicy
AmazonEKSWorkerNodePolicy
AmazonEKSServicePolicy
AmazonEKS_CNI_Policy
AmazonEKSVPCResourceController
```

== Using the script to create the user

> The script located at `/scripts/accounts/aws/create-user.sh` will assist you in the creation of a user, also enrolling it in a newly created group with the required policies attached.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The script located at `/scripts/accounts/aws/create-user.sh` will automatically create a user, also enrolling it in a newly created group with the required policies attached.
```

> In case you do not have an AWS access key (needed to authenticate through API), follow [this guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_credentials_access-keys.html#Using_CreateAccessKey) to create it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case you do not have an AWS access key (needed to authenticate through API), follow [this guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_credentials_access-keys.html#Using_CreateAccessKey) to create it.
```

=== Flags
```
-u      [Required] Username for the new user
-g      [Required] Group name for the group to be created or used
-p      [Optional] Policies to be attached to the group, splitted by comma
-a      [Optional] AWS administrator access key
-s      [Optional] AWS administrator secret key
-r      [Optional] AWS region
```
=== Usage
On success, the newly created user access data will be shown as output:
```
Access key ID: <accessKeyID>
Secret access key: <secretAccessKey>
```

> IMPORTANT: It is mandatory to store the access key ID and the secret access key securely at this point, as *the will not be retrievable again*.

Reviewer: Add a usage example of the type ./create-user.sh -u ...
In order to let the user know how to execute the script and how the flags are inputed.

:toc: macro
toc::[]
:idprefix:
:idseparator: -

> = Prepare AWS account for deployment with Azure DevOps
> The scope of this section is to prepare an AWS account to be ready for deployment from Azure DevOps to AWS EKS. By the end of this guide, a new user with the required permissions will be created.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
= Setup AWS account IAM for deployment in EKS
The scope of this section is to prepare an AWS account to be ready for deploying in AWS EKS. By the end of this guide, a new IAM user belonging to a group with the required permissions will be created.
```

== Preparing environment
First of all, https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/getting-started-install.html[install AWS CLI for your OS]. 

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
==Prerequisites

* An AWS account with IAM full access permission.
```

> In case you do not have permission to create new IAM users, request it to your AWS administrator asking for the following policies attached. Then go to <<configure-cli>>.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In case you do not have an account or permission to create new IAM users, request it to your AWS administrator asking for the following policies attached. Then go to <<configure-cli>>.
```

```
AmazonEKSClusterPolicy
AmazonEKSWorkerNodePolicy
AmazonEKSServicePolicy
AmazonEKS_CNI_Policy
AmazonEKSVPCResourceController
```

> == Using the script to create the user

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Creating IAM user using provided script
```

The script located at `/scripts/accounts/aws/create-user.sh` will automatically create a user, also enrolling it in a newly created group with the required policies attached.

In case you do not have an AWS access key (needed to authenticate through API), follow https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_credentials_access-keys.html#Using_CreateAccessKey[this guide] to create it.

=== Flags
```
-u      [Required] Username for the new user
-g      [Required] Group name for the group to be created or used
-p      [Optional] Policies to be attached to the group, splitted by comma
-f      [Optional] Path to a file containing the policies to be attached to the group
-a      [Optional] AWS administrator access key
-s      [Optional] AWS administrator secret key
-r      [Optional] AWS region
```

=== Example
```
./create-user.sh -u "Bob" -g "DevOps" -f "./policies.txt" -a "<accessKeyAWS>" -s "<secretKeyAWS>" -r "eu-west-1" 
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
NOTE: If the "DevOps" group does not exist, it will be created.
```

In case you do not have AWS access key (needed to authenticate through API), follow this guide to create it: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_credentials_access-keys.html#Using_CreateAccessKey

=== Syntax
```
create-user.sh
    [-u <String>]
    [-g <String>]
```
=== Arguments
```
-u      [Required] Username given to the user created by the script
-g      [Required] Group name given to the group created by the script
```
=== Usage
Execute the script, for example:
```
./create-user.sh -u deployeruser -g deploygroup
```
You will be prompted to introduce your AWS credentials as follows:
```
AWS Access Key ID [None]: <accessKeyID>
AWS Secret Access Key [None]: <secretAccessKey>
Default region name [None]: us-west-2
Default output format [None]: json
```
After introducing the credentials, the script will create the user and everything needed. Finally, the newly created user access data will be shown in screen:
```
Access key ID: <accessKeyID>
Secret access key: <secretAccessKey>
```
IMPORTANT: It is mandatory to store the access key ID and the secret access key securely, *it won't be shown again*.

> == Configure AWS Cli [[configure-cli]]

Author: In this final section, the user is configuring his new AWS user in his AWS console. Everyone needs to do this step

```
-u      [Required] Username given to the user created by the script
-g      [Required] Group name given to the group created by the script
```
=== Usage
Execute the script, for example:
```
./create-user.sh -u deployeruser -g deploygroup
```
You will be prompted to introduce your AWS credentials as follows:
```
AWS Access Key ID [None]: <accessKeyID>
AWS Secret Access Key [None]: <secretAccessKey>
Default region name [None]: us-west-2
Default output format [None]: json
```
After introducing the credentials, the script will create the user and everything needed. Finally, the newly created user access data will be shown in screen:
```
Access key ID: <accessKeyID>
Secret access key: <secretAccessKey>
```
IMPORTANT: It is mandatory to store the access key ID and the secret access key securely, *it won't be shown again*.

== Configure AWS Cli
Finally, when you have been provided with a user, set up the AWS CLI using the following command:
```
aws configure
```
Fill the prompted fields with your data. For example:
```
AWS Access Key ID [None]: <accessKeyID>
AWS Secret Access Key [None]: <secretAccessKey>
Default region name [None]: us-west-2
Default output format [None]: json
```

> Now you have your AWS account ready to use.

Reviewer: Add a message or warning in order to let the user know that if they have executed the script form the previous section there is no need to do this section.

Author: In this final section, the user is configuring his new AWS user in his AWS console. Everyone needs to do this step

:toc: macro
toc::[]
:idprefix:
:idseparator: -
= Prepare AWS account for deployment with Azure DevOps
The scope of this section is to prepare an AWS account to be ready for deployment from Azure DevOps to AWS EKS.
This tutorial is divided into two sections depending on the access you have to AWS.

== (AWS Administrator) Create an AWS user that is able to deploy to EKS
Follow this section if you are an AWS administrator with user creation permissions.

> In this section it is going to be created a new user and a new group. Necessary policies to allow permissions will be attached to this group and the user will be added to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section a new user and an new group will be created. The user will be added to this group and the necessary policies to allow permissions will be attached.
```

```
Access key ID: <accessKeyID>
Secret access key: <secretAccessKey>
```
IMPORTANT: It is mandatory to store the access key ID and the secret access key securely, *it won't be shown again*.

Now you have your AWS account ready to use.

== (Non privileged user) Request to AWS administrator a user to deploy
Follow this section if you don't have permission to create users in AWS.

=== Preparing environment
First of all, install AWS CLI for your OS: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/getting-started-install.html

=== Request a user to your AWS administrator
Request a IAM user to your AWS administrator with the following policies attached:
```
AmazonEKSClusterPolicy
AmazonEKSWorkerNodePolicy
AmazonEKSServicePolicy
AmazonEKS_CNI_Policy
AmazonEKSVPCResourceController
```
=== Configure AWS CLI
Finally, when you have been provided with a user, set up the AWS CLI using the following command:
```
aws configure
```
Fill the prompted fields with your data. For example:
```
AWS Access Key ID [None]: <accessKeyID>
AWS Secret Access Key [None]: <secretAccessKey>
Default region name [None]: us-west-2
Default output format [None]: json
```

> Now you have your AWS account ready to use.

Reviewer: As commented in the meeting, try to change this section into something more simple, so it does not look like a repetition of the other section.

Author: Solved in the new commit
